# Scatter Chart

## Dataset

The dataset used for the scatter chart is the [FDNY Incident Dispatch Dataset](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/Public-Safety/Fire-Incident-Dispatch-Data/8m42-w767/data)

The dataset contains information generated by 911 dispatchers as well as automated alarm systems throughout the city of
New York. The data contained in the set includes geographic information about the incident reported, as well as
information regarding how the situation was handled by first responders such as if/how many units were dispatched to the
scene, how long it took them to respond to the incident, and what level of alarm was raised.

## Data Analytics Performed

All data entries from the previous year are imported using SODApy (Socrata Open Data API for Python) to be processed by Pandas.

Using pandas, the columns incident_datetime and incident_travel_tm_seconds_qy are selected,and rows with either of these values as nan are dropped. Then, the incident_datetime is stripped to just the time, then reformatted to be in decimal hours (1:30 pm = 13.5). Then incident_datetime is plotted as x and incident_travel_tm_seconds_qy as y.

## Data Visualization

The data are displayed in a scatter chart which shows what if there is any relationship between the incident_datetime and incident_travel_tm_seconds_qy. This chart is both useful and meaningful since it gives at-a-glance
information about the times of day have the slowest response times in general, and there seems to be a pattern emerging. It would be more helpful if the month was plotted as different colors, but this gives us interesting insights.

This would be helpful in helping analyse how to best decrease the response time, by focusing on the effect of time of day on the time to respond.
However, there are many more confounding variables, and if we were to take them all into account here, it would be outside the scope of this course.
