# Bar Chart

## Dataset

The dataset used for the bar chart is the [FDNY Incident Dispatch Dataset](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/Public-Safety/Fire-Incident-Dispatch-Data/8m42-w767/data)

The dataset contains information generated by 911 dispatchers as well as automated alarm systems throughout the city of
New York. The data contained in the set includes geographic information about the incident reported, as well as
information regarding how the situation was handled by first responders such as if/how many units were dispatched to the
scene, how long it took them to respond to the incident, and what level of alarm was raised.

## Data Analytics Performed

All data entries from the previous year are imported using SODApy (Socrata Open Data API for Python) to be processed by Pandas.

Using pandas, the data are sorted by the borough in which the incident occurred. Then, the average response time is
calculated for rows which have valid response times listed. The standard deviation is also calculated for this mean.

## Data Visualization

The data are plotted in a bar chart which lists the average response time for incidents (of the most recent 10,000) by
the borough in New York City in which they occurred. This chart is both useful and meaningful since it gives at-a-glance
information about the efficiency of fire departments in each borough/neighborhood in New York City.

From this, one might determine where the most effective fire departments are, what the safest neighborhood is in regards
to how long it takes fire department to respond to emergencies, or  how effective funds invested in each department are.
